>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's get deeper
with the standalone user experience before
talking about offline.
We have already been talking about
the experience, different experiences,
like minimal UI, full screen,
let's talk about the icon, okay?
So when you install a PWA on desktop,
your icon will appear as any
other icon in the system, okay?
No matter what, it will look
like any other acronym system,
if it's window, Mac or Linux.
On Android, there are two possibilities,
we can get the shortcut,
or we can get a web APK.
So let's try to dig
into these two options.
By default,
let's talk about shortcut icons.
They create a shortcut to a browser's
engine in the home screen,
only in the home screen,
not in the launcher.
On Android, you have two places,
iOS is kind of the home screen,
and then we have also the gallery.
But here you have two places,
the home screen and then the applications.
Incase you are not an Android user,
let me show you that here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So this is my
home screen, and this is my launcher.
I have both options.
Well, a shortcut will only be
available at the home screen, okay?
No icon in the launcher.
So, it's an app experience, but it
doesn't feel like a full app, okay, 100%.
So it doesn't appear at the apps list,
that's the problem.
So, all browsers use this
method by default, okay?
By default.
And from Android 8,
they include a browser's badge.
What is that?
Here I have the same Starbucks PWA
installed with a lot of different
browsers.
What's about that little icon there
that says, this is Edge, actually
this is the old Edge icon, and Samsung
Internet browser, Firefox, and so on.
And yeah, it doesn't look so nice, right?
We don't wanna see that small icon there.
So what we want is webAPK icons.
WebAPK icons will appear only if
we are passing the PWA criteria,
that right now our web app
is not passing because,
for example,
we don't have the icon set yet, okay?
In this case, the webAPK is
a full Android native package.
Actually, APK is Android package.
If you have ever played with native
Android development, it's the file
format that the Android operating system
uses to install and execute apps.
So it's a full Android native package.
But be careful,
the package only contains metadata.
So it's not going to download your HTML,
CSS and ship that, no, okay,
it's just the metadata, the URL,
the name of your app, your icon.
This is kind of mind-blowing,
the APK is installed silently.
Of course, the user has to invoke
Chrome PWA installation, but
then we won't see any dialog saying,
hey, do you wanna install this APK?
No, no, it's installed silently.
Why?
Because that APK is signed by Google,
by the Play Store.
It has the Play Store signature.
It says, Google is shipping this,
so the browser is
trusting the signature and
installing the app silently.
It will add an icon to the home screen and
also to the launcher, both.
And for that, you need to use
Google Chrome as your browser, and
you need a phone with Play Services,
but most devices have Play services,
but have in mind that there are some
that are not, Huawei devices.
And you need to use Google Chrome,
so if you're using other browsers,
Firefox, Firefox don't have the ability,
the power,
the phone number of the Google
person that is responsible for this.
But actually, Google is not yet,
unfortunately,
offering the webAPK service to other
browsers, only Chrome has it, okay?
On the other hand,
if you have a Samsung device,
because in this case
Samsung has also signature.
If you're using the Internet browser,
I'm not sure if you know that
Samsung has its own browser.
It's called the Internet browser,
Samsung Internet.
If on that one, on Samsung devices,
you can also install webAPKs.
I mean, users don't realize if
it's webAPK or shortcut, but
you will get the full experience,
the full Android experience.
Okay, make sense?
And something similar happened with
Huawei devices, they're not using webAPK,
they're using something similar,
but the effect is the same one.
When you install PWA on a Huawei
device using their own browser,
you get the full experience.
Okay, make sense?
Any question on that, on webAPK?
Nope?
So, to finish the process and
finally meet the PWA criteria,
we need to add the icons
to the web app manifest.
So, what is that?
It's actually pretty simple, it's an array
of icons that we define in the manifest.
For each icon you win in the source,
the size is property, and the type, okay?
So some recommendations, because actually,
what are the sizes we need to use?
I mean, the spec, it's agnostic.
It's, do wherever you want, okay?
So every device will try to pick
the closest icon that matches
their requirements.
But for the real world out there,
it's a good idea to have one PNG
in the SRGB color space that
Android is going to use and
desktop is going to use as well.
And if there is no exact icon
available for that particular phone,
it would be the closest one,
and the sizes that I recommend
are at least 192 by 192,
512 and 1024, okay?
I mean, you can just provide one, and
it was just the only icon it has, okay?
There are some deprecated sizes, and
actually if you go and ask ChatGPT,
what are the recommended sizes?
I'm pretty sure it would recommend a lot,
because there are a lot of articles out
there on the web that are outdated.
That they will say,
you need to put this and that there,
all sizes that no one is using it anymore,
so it doesn't worth the time.
Also, today, you can also provide an SVG
file, and some platforms will take it.
WebAPK will take it, and also some
other devices, mostly on desktop,
will take the SVG, so then you don't
need to create different versions, okay?
So on some operating systems, such as
MacOS, it will use the SVG if you have it.